are you finding digital marketing hard
to learn well it's because you aren't
following each of the stages
probably wondering what the heck are
each of the stages well
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down the six stages
of learning digital marketing and which
one are you in
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so i'm going to break down the six
stages and then i want you to tell me in
the comments below what stage are you at
so stage number one
the generalist learner
you're exploring a lot of different
principles in digital marketing social
media paid ads seo content marketing
email marketing even niches like
ecommerce and b2b although they're not
really niches
at this stage you're mapping out the
universe of digital marketing and
probably deciding what really matters to
you
stage two
successes and failures you start testing
your tactics in the real world
businesses
you'll fail
learn from your mistakes
keep risk low by working with clients
pro bono or for lower cost and then
they'll pay you
when you become a real pro
have your own projects and don't worry
too much about focusing on just one
discipline of marketing and try to
explore as much as you can and the
disciplines that are the most attractive
to you
stage three niching down
some businesses are really hard to do
digital marketing for a classic example
of this is hard for beginners is b to b
b to b for me funny enough is easier
than b to c but i know how to do both
really well at this point because i've
been doing it for 20 years
you can do some things really easy in
digital marketing while others are very
hard for example you may be great at
copywriting but you may hate managing
paid ads
this is the time when you specialize in
one area of marketing and even one
specific type of client for example you
can specialize in paid ads for local
doctors you can learn how to create tons
of value for your clients while spending
the least amount of time and money to do
that
another example of this is focusing on
facebook ads just for d2c e-commerce
companies you see how i got really
specific here i'm not talking about
amazon i'm talking about direct to
consumer e-commerce companies and only
doing the facebook ads that itself is an
art and science right you may have to
learn how to create really funny videos
like the harmon brothers or bacon and
eggs like they do to create that
conversion rate that you need for d to c
stage four the portfolio at this stage
you're already comfortable with working
on a niche and area of marketing you'll
start documenting all the wins and
building your portfolio that you can
showcase to other potential clients the
goal here is to stack up as many
possible wins as possible and create a
library of all the tests and successful
things that you've done that you know
that'll work for other businesses that
you can just rinse and repeat consider
them your bag of tricks you're building
up this bag of tricks and you want to
make it bigger and bigger so that way as
you go to a new business or taking your
job you can continually just implement
them
stage five scaling up right now you've
done a lot of work in your field and
you're really looking for opportunities
to scale
this is typically when you start hiring
and automating a lot of the repetitive
stuff
there's a lot of tools out there like
uipath that can help you automate
marketing processes i know a lot of
marketers don't talk about it but trust
me it can do wonders for you and you'll
want to have a clear idea of your
workflows and have the ability to have
other people do it for you
scaling up is a skill like any other
that you need to roll up your sleeves
and take lots of action
and stage six
authority
by now you've worked with tons of
clients in your space it's time to
become authority figure by speaking at
conferences writing tons of content
shooting videos that help your audience
build up your brand on social media
spend some considerable time and money
building up your website authority
acquiring backlinks and covering as much
ground as possible and different topics
related to your niche
so
now that you know the stages
and you're focusing on learning digital
marketing figure out what stage you're
in and move from one stage to the next
if you need repeat this video because
you don't need to do stage one and then
jump to stage six you want to do them in
order and if you do them in order you're
going to be better off and that's how
you learn digital marketing better now
in the comments below tell me what stage
you're in and if you have to rewind the
video to recap on the stages so then
that way you know which one you're in
and let me know so that way i can create
more content for you that helps you with
where you're at
if you enjoyed this video like it share
tell the people about it if you just
need help with your digital marketing
you want my company to do it for you and
you don't want to learn it that's okay
too check out my ad agency np digital